hi I'm Tim Schweitzer local cooking show
and today I'm going to show you a quick
and easy asparagus recipe here we go
first we have our beautiful bunch of
local asparagus here and what we're
going to do first is we're going to cut
off the woody stems of our asparagus
just like that leave the rubber band on
this garbage alright now we're going to
come in here with our pan on high you
get that heated up real quick and we are
going to go ahead and add our extra
virgin olive oil
there we go move that around you want to
coat the entire surface of your pan now
you know when your olive oil is getting
nice and heated up when the viscosity is
right you'll see it move around the pan
will start loosening up and you know
we're getting ready to add our garlic so
I've some crushed garlic here and we are
just going to do one spoonful once our
pan gets heated up to where that oil
starts pull away from the edge there we
go we're getting that so we're going to
add in a heaping spoon of garlic
and you start to hear that sizzle up
there we go now we don't want to burn
our garlic but we do want to get it nice
and golden brown release all that flavor
there we go
well now we're going to add some crushed
black pepper
turn our pan down burn our garlic gets a
little hot you can move it off the heat
take it off swirl it around I'll pull
you down get back to the proper kettle
and as much black pepper as you'd like I
prefer a lot so I'm just going to keep
on going here and this is smelling great
just a bit all right we're going to
bring this back up the temp here we are
about ready to add our space
our asparagus go in a cooler and it just
I really want your asparagus coated in
all and got stuck in there all right you
have Sperry sizzling now we are going to
add in a large pinch of salt rather
generous now you don't over salt your
asparagus but you definitely want to
have a hefty amount in there
you're going to let that sit for about
two minutes let that asparagus cook down
so often just give that asparagus give
it a turn buddy
don't want to burn that garlic
right now the trick with asparagus is
you don't want to overcook it you don't
want a dark brown it's not going to look
good it won't present well we definitely
want to keep some of the integrity while
softening up the stalk of it this is
looking wonderful
now stop halfway through add some
crushed red pepper a little bit of heat
your preference so if you don't like hot
things don't add in the pepper
and we are cooking down nicely we're
almost there now some people like to add
a little bit of water in to steam the
asparagus a bit my preference is white
wine vinegar
it gives almost the pickling flavor to
the asparagus with a little bit of Tang
little zip go can splash that in there
just a bit don't overdo it
let that go for about another minute
that coated in all that vinegar the
vinegar also helps retain the green
color of the asparagus and now you're
not going to dull them down it's also
another upside to it
you smell that vinegar coming through oh
yeah see how the asparagus is starting
to wilt
that's what you're looking for
don't overdo it
that's just about where you want so
we're going to go ahead and pull this
off the heat one more quick toss turn
our meat off we're going to throw a
plate on there I'm going to show you how
it looks presenting now this goes great
with chicken fish pretty much anything
well you put your main course down there
just grab a big old and fold that
asparagus and lay it right out on your
plate and how good does that look
so there you have it a quick simple and
easy asparagus dish that you can impress
your friends with and you'll love
remember go to our website wwlp.com
follow us on facebook twitter all the
links are below thank you so much for
watching our video and join us next time
you